Billions of people
have died throughout history.
But the death of one person stands alone
—that of Jesus Christ.
Why did he die?
Did his death have a purpose?
To find the answer,
we need to go back
to the beginning of human history.
The Bible explains
that God created the man Adam perfect,
without sin.
He was free to eat from all the trees
in the garden of Eden
—except one.
God gave the simple command
not to eat from that particular tree.
This tree symbolized God’s right
to set the standards of good and bad.
As long as Adam
remained obedient to Jehovah,
he had the prospect of living forever
on a paradise earth.
But Adam did not appreciate
all the good things God had done for him.
He chose to disobey God.
As a result,
he lost the opportunity to live forever.
But he was not the only one affected.
All of his descendants
have inherited the fatal effects of sin.
By themselves,
humans could not break free
from sin and death.
They needed someone to rescue them.
For this reason,
Jehovah miraculously caused
one of his perfect spirit sons
to come to earth as a human.
Jesus was a perfect man,
just as Adam had been.
However, unlike Adam,
Jesus remained obedient.
This allowed him “to give his life
as a ransom in exchange for many.”
But how could the death of one man
benefit all of mankind?
Well, imagine that the manager
of a large factory
steals money from the company.
His actions plunge the company into debt,
forcing it to shut down.
The workers lose their jobs
and cannot pay their bills.
Many suffer
because of that one man’s corruption.
Now suppose
a kind and generous man feels sorry
for all those who are suffering.
He is moved to pay off the debt
and reopen the company.
By canceling that one debt,
he brings relief to all the employees
and their families.
Adam is like that corrupt manager.
When he rebelled,
he incurred a large debt of sin
and passed it on to his children.
Jesus is like the generous man.
When he gave up his perfect human life,
he paid off the debt of sin
and reopened the prospect of living forever
for each of us.
You may wonder:
‘Did Jesus really exist?
‘Is believing in Jesus enough for salvation?
Is Jesus God?’
To learn more about what the Bible says
on this and many other topics,
go to jw.org.